Alright, so moving on with our Speed Converter code,
we now have finished the first method,
it's time to move on with the second.
Now if we go back and have a look at the text briefly,
this is the text in the exercise,
the second part talked about writing another method
called printConversion with one parameter of type double
and the parameters should have the name kilometersPerHour.
So let's add that method to IntelliJ.
So I'm gonna type public
static void
printConversion,
parentheses double
kilometersPerHour
with our left and right curly braces
to close off the method.
Right, and going back quickly to read the sentence again,
you can see there that it says
this method shouldn't return anything,
so in other words, it's of type void
and it needs to calculate milesPerHour
from the kilometersPerHour argument
or parameter that's sent to it.
Then it needs to print a message
in the format you can see there, I won't read that out,
but you can see that XX in the output
represents the original value, kilometersPerHour
and that's passed to this method
and YY represents the rounded milesPerHour
from the kilometersPerHour parameter,
basically after calculating it
and there's a test there for an invalid value,
if the parameter passed the argument value,
kilometersPerHour is less than zero,
then we print out an error message, Invalid Value.
Right, so we have to print some text into the console
and the method shouldn't return anything.
Our method is already void, you saw me type that,
so we don't need to change anything,
go back and have a look at that,
you can see that on line 12, I've defined that as type void.
Keep in mind that returning a value
and printing text in the console is not the same,
I wanna show you a difference between the two
in a few moments, but first, let's finish the method.
We're going to check for an invalid value,
checking to see whether it's less than zero first,
so I'm going to type on line 14,
if parentheses kilometersPerHour, that's less than zero,
left and right curly braces,
we're going to print out using sout,
so abbreviation in double quotes, Invalid Value,
I can type like so,
there we go, having some problems typing today.
Alright, so we've done that,
if the argument passed is less than zero,
we know we've got an Invalid Value,
so we're printing out a message to that effect.
The next step then is to calculate the milesPerHour,
but instead of actually duplicating
the code we've got on line nine,
we can call that method that we wrote,
basically we can call the toMilesPerHour method
and that would save duplication of code,
so in this case I will use a variable,
since we have to print the text in a specified format
and obviously we didn't use a variable
in the toMilesPerHour method.
So to add that code, we're gonna put an else here now,
so in other words if the kilometersPerHour is equal to zero
or basically greater than or equal to zero,
we'll add an else, left and right curly braces
and then the code is going to be
long milesPerHour
is equal to
and instead of typing in the method.round again,
we're gonna type toMilesPerHour to call that method
and we're gonna pass kilometersPerHour,
which was passed to this method,
we're gonna pass that value to that method.
So what we're doing here effectively is we put equals,
saving the returned value from that first method,
this toMilesPerHour method on line three,
putting the value from that
into our variable milesPerHour on line 17.
Now that I've done that, we can add the printout,
the print line statement on the next line,
let's go ahead and do that.
So I'm gonna type System.out.println
and in double quotes,
well actually before the double quotes,
I'm gonna start by specifying the kilometersPerHour plus
what I'm going to do is to break this up
into multiple lines, so that you can read it easier,
now you could probably type this
on one line on your monitor,
but because I've got this zoomed up pretty high,
so you can see it, we're gonna do it on multiple lines
and I'll just move this over anyway,
so we can see the code a bit more.
So I'm gonna do kilometres plus
and I've just pressed Enter there to go to the next line,
I'm gonna type km/h equals,
that's obviously an abbreviation for kilometres per hour,
space after the equals, double quotes,
plus our milesPerHour variable and plus again,
I'm gonna go to the next line again
and I'm going to add mi for miles, /h.
Again, you could probably
have typed that all on the one line,
but I wanna make it easier for you to see,
so I'm typing this.
So at this point effectively that completes our exercise,
you're probably wondering though,
how do we test this now in IntelliJ?
Well, first we need the main method,
that's in the Main class,
but remember the exercise text said the main method
shouldn't be added to your solution code on Utemy,
this isn't a coding exercise,
the main method, as mentioned in previous videos
is a method that will start your applications
and basically you can test it within IntelliJ.
So one way is to add it to your solution code,
but then if you did that all in the same file,
in your SpeedConverter file,
when you paste your solution onto Udemy
to our code exercise, you might get an error
or forget to paste the closing curly braces and so on,
so basically you're just opening up the opportunity
of causing or making a mistake basically
and this is one of the reasons why we created
a Main class in the previous video,
basically to be able to run and test our solution,
but not otherwise interfere with the code
that we've written in the SpeedConverter class.
Now what actually a class is isn't important right now,
just imagine it has the files, you wanna talk
about the Main class or the SpeedConverter class,
you can see that they basically equate to a file here,
SpeedConverter.java and Main.java.
We are gonna talk about classes later in the course,
for now just think of them as seperate files,
which effectively they are,
so that we can get our testing up and going.
So basically going back to our Main.java now
and obviously that's pretty much empty now,
other than that first definition that has been added for us,
when we created the class,
this is only going to contain the code to test our class
and not the code to solve the solution
and you'll see what I mean as we go through.
The first thing we need to do then
is on line three, I'm going to type psvm,
which is an abbreviation in IntelliJ,
press tab there, you can see it expands it out
to the public static void main line,
alternatively you can type that if you wanted to
and that gives us a standard entry point
for Java to be able to run our code.
Right, so to call the methods from this other class,
this SpeedConverter class, the other file,
we need to specify the class name and then the method name,
very similar to what we did
for our math.round function in the previous video
and in case you're wondering about this static,
well that's not really important right now,
we'll go into that in detail as we go through the course,
it's important that you know how to use them though
and later in the course, you'll learn more specifically
about static methods and instance methods
and their differences, so we will get to that.
For now we're taking things one step at a time
and we actually execute the code that we've created.
Alright, so what we can do is type now on line five,
SpeedConverter, notice how that's been found for us,
if I type a period or a dot,
whereas before math had found
the math.round function for us,
here now we've typed SpeedConverter and a period or a dot,
it's giving us the available options or methods,
that we can use in our code.
So I'm gonna specify the toMilesPerHour one,
because this is the one we want,
I'm just pressing the up and down arrow keys to select data,
I can press Enter there and you can see,
it fills out the information for us.
I'm gonna put a value in there to test, 10.5,
alright and we'll close the line off.
So basically the syntax you saw was exactly the same
as when we called the round method,
first we typed the name of the class
and then the method name.
Now the other thing I wanna draw your attention to,
you've got this highlight again, if you hover over it,
IntelliJ is telling us that the result of the method
is ignored, so what does that actually mean?
Well, let's just run this now and see what happens,
so I'm just gonna right-click in here,
I'm going to select Run Main.main,
give it a moment to compile.
Alright, so you can see down the bottom left-hand corner
of the screen, nothing's printed to the console,
we've got our line here, the first line up here
is basically the code that's executed,
when we run the programme, but that's got Process finished,
so there's no output from the programme
and you're probably wondering at this point, well, why not?
After all, we've called
the SpeedConverter.toMilesPerHour method,
we know that that does the calculation,
so why isn't it being outputted on the screen?
Well the reason is we haven't told IntelliJ
to print anything to the console,
we've only told it to call that method to invoke the code.
IntelliJ is pretty smart here and basically saying to us,
okay, you've called this method,
but you're not doing anything with the return value
and it's just giving us a warning,
not an error, just a warning to say,
you know, is this really what you want this to be?
So basically in our case, that's a hint, a heads up
that we need to change something to get rid of that warning
and to actually do something with the code.
So what we're gonna do first
is we're going to save the value,
that's returned from the toMilesPerHour method
into a variable, so at the start of that line,
I'm gonna type double miles is equal to
and notice that that warning has now disappeared
and that's because we're now doing something with it,
but we've now got another warning over here,
that Variable miles is never used,
so again, IntelliJ is being helpful there,
but on the next line what we'll do is we'll output it,
so I'm gonna type System.out.println again
and I'm going to type in double quotes
Miles equals plus
and the variable, miles that we've defined on line five,
that warning then goes away
and we are at this point about to run it again
and we should see the values, so let's run this
and you can see, we've got the answer there,
seven basically Miles equals 7.0.
So that's the main difference
between returning and printing,
if we return the value, we can use it for some calculation,
in order to print it out,
we have to specifically select the option to print out,
which I did on line six.
So with that in mind, let's call the other method,
remember the method, printConversion is void
and doesn't return anything,
but it self-prints text to the console,
whereas the toMilesPerHour method was only calculating,
we've actually got some output on that.
So what we can do on the next line
is we can type SpeedConverter.printConversion
and then parentheses 10.5 again, semi-colon
and we can run that again
and you can see there we've got 10.5 kilometres per hour
equals seven miles per hour
and obviously I haven't put spaces there,
I should probably fix that up,
so let's have a look at fixing it up
and we'll go back to the SpeedConverter class
and I'll add a space at the start of kilometres per hour,
a space ahead of miles per hour.
The other thing I wanna draw your attention to though
is I really made a mistake here, going back to this code,
I called it a double, but if we go back
and have a look at our toMilesPerHour again,
of course what I did there was I defined it as a long,
so I really should have changed that to a long,
but noticing that the output down here,
we've got 7.0, which is correct, because it's a double,
but the Java was actually smart enough to convert it over,
but we really want that to be a long,
so that when we run it, we get what we should have got,
which is Miles equals seven
and 10.5 kilometres per hour equals seven miles per hour.
Alright, so let's fix those things up.
So what we'll do is we'll end the video here.
In the next video, we'll go through quickly
and we'll test that this is all working
within the Udemy framework,
within the Udemy coding exercise
and we should then be complete.
So I'll see you in the next video.